# Visualizing ESportsmanship with Community Generated Data
This is my final project for data viz class and the beginning of my thesis.

The goal of this project is to gather the community opinion and consensus on sportsmanship in eSports and illustrate the results of what eSportsmanship is to the community in a interactive map.

Here is the link of my final project:

Voting page:https://editor.p5js.org/jchen56@sva.edu/full/HJoJ1HUk4

Result page:https://editor.p5js.org/jchen56@sva.edu/full/B1k51BXgE

I really appreciate your help and your efforts for this class. Thank you Joey!

## Project Procedure
### 1. Gathering data
I use questionaires made by Google form to gather data from the community. This should be done before this project but since I didnot have the chance to work with a community I have access to, I decieded to do a demo with my own understanding of what eSportsmanship to immitate that process.

The key data in this form are the name of the value/behavior/rule and the Score of each unit. However, the results are not shown in this way in the form generated by google for survice. This is the first challenge I face: the data I collect did not match the data I want to process and visualize.

### 2. Processing data
Initially I expetected to use P5JS built-in function to process the data. In my design, the data will be updated in real time after users interractive with my map, which obviously need a buffer to store my data. So I took this unsolved problem to Joey asking for help.

However, after discussing this problem with Joey, I realized the solution to this problem is beyond knowledge we learned in this class. Therefore, I took a compomised approach:instead of writing algorithm to process the data gathered via google form,  I process the data in google numers to process the data with average function and built a filtered data that can be used in my visualization. With this being done, I actually have two data: one collected from player community and one I revised and reformed manually. I know this kind of low-tech, but this is the best I can do.

### 3. Building Unit of the visual & Interactive elements
There are two parts of my visuals. The first part is the interactive voting page. I use class to construct bubbles that represent each unit of eSportsmanship. Each bubble have 5 functions: show, move, stop, cover and click. With this being done, users can interract with the map: watching the bubble floating onto the center of the map, moving mouse on bubble to show the detal and clicking the bubble to vote.

The second part is the result page. This is originally expected to be shown after submit the result. Since I didnot figure out how to do that in P5JS, I will leave it to my thesis. In this part, I use animated rectangle to show the score of each unit.

Originally I wantted to give submit button a call back function so that the result page can be shown directly in the same page. However, I find it impossible since both page have different set up and may cause conflicts if I just simply put two P5 sketches together. After consulting Joey, I decide to give the submit button a link of the result page after I launch the www.eSportsmanshipmanifesto.com, which is obviously easier and won't affect the user experience.

### 4. Challenge & Next steps
In conclusion, the main challenges I face are how to use algorithm to process the data and how to make record the votes users make, both of which are restricted by my current knowledge of programming. Therefore, during this winter break, I will take course <the the advanced web developer bootcamp> at ucademy to develop my skill for my thesis. 
